{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\f0\fs28\lang9 A Brief History of Tiamat\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs24\tab Much is known about the great history of Tiamat as many of our ancestors kept good records of what they have done. However it occurs to me that looking at Tiamat from a glance hasn't been possible due to the vast amount of information there is about us. That is why I've decided to set about writing this book. Here we can look at Tiamat, get the main story and points, and see how far we have come, all without spending hours of time trying to learn every king pet's name. \par
\tab Very little is actually known about the origins of Tiamat 6000 years ago. So many stories have arisen, however one main one seems to be the consensus. As for things that happened B.T.(Before Tiamat) there is very little to no information. I have done my best to put the peices together, although many things during this time are just stories passed down by word of mouth and may be just that stories. Regardless, here it goes.\fs22\par
\fs24\tab B.T. is an era before Tiamat faught The Old Gods. During this time the universe and world were still in the midst of creation. Tiamat had always existed, however while fighting Them in the ether, she and their clash created the rest of the physical universe. Stars are fireballs from Tiamat, planets are debris from her other breaths. Black Holes are where Tiamat and The Old Gods collided. She and Them fought, but They prevailed. Tiamat, unable to accept this face, clawed at Them and dragged a piece of Them down to the world with her. Tiamat died.\fs22\par
10 B.T. A great tragedy happened upon the Imperial Kingdom, causing most of the Elves to set sail to a new world. Othorian Nel was born as they were leaving.\par
When Tiamat had died, The Ancient Elves watched Tiamat get defeated by the Old Gods and fall to The World. Her death was not celebrated nor mourned by the Elves. Othorian Nel was 10 years old when this happened. Her Fall created a place for the Elves to land their ships.\par
1 A.T. Tulorian was founded by the Elves.\par
214 A.T. The Battle of the Minds split the Elves into different ways of thinking. While some Elves believed that they should grow, adapt, and evolve, another sect of elves wanted to stick to their natural roots. This caused a great migration of Elves to live a traditional life, while the other half continued to advance society in Tulorian. This split created the Wood and High Elves.\par
457 A.T. Dwarves arrive on Tiamat. The Elves and Dwarves did not get along well, and they were given very little help adapting to the new land. They stayed separated, and caused no big territorial issues considering that the continent had not yet been very colonized. \par
481 KneeStone Mines were founded.\par
946 A.T. Orcs arrive on Tiamat. They were very unkind and unwelcome in general by both Elves and Dwarves. This is where base territorial battles began, although it was more of battles here and there if they ever crossed paths and not necessarily enough forces for it to be a war. A blight began to spread through the land.  \par
958 A.T. Hell was founded.\par
989 A.T. The Blight was spreading through the land and ruining it severely. However it ended abruptly. This began the Good Era of Peace.  \par
1063 A.T. Humans arrived to Tiamat. They were welcomed by the Elves and Dwarves. Orcs were not kind to the outsiders. Humans had escaped near elimination due to the disasters happening on their continent, and thought of Tiamat as their savior. They created the religion of Tiamat. They began to spread their religion all over Tiamat, forcefully somtimes. They reproduced quickly. This caused the Great Spread of Humanity.\par
1080 A.T. Cardious was founded.\par
1088 A.T. Harven was founded.\par
1104 A.T. Kubi was founded.\par
1105 A.T. Nodo was founded.\par
1216 A.T. Helne was founded.\par
1324 A.T. Ankor was founded.\par
1414 A.T. Kastof was founded.\par
1548 A.T. Nether was founded. \par
1630 A.T. Chin was founded. This series of rapid spreading known as the Great Spread of Humanity was beginning to cause concern to the other Races of Tiamat. Chin was extremely close to Tulorian and the Elves took it as an apparent militant placement in their territory. Political tensions began to rapidly rise, and there was little to stop racism from spreading.\par
1679 A.T. Jarnath was born.\par
1680 A.T. Chin was destroyed by the Elves after it was discovered that weapons and dark magic was being created there. This began the Elven Human War.  \par
1699 A.T. Jarnath fought Othorian Nel for the rights of Tiamat to the humans. Jarnath was beaten. This was ultimately the Human's final stand against the Elves. The Elven Human war ended.\par
1700 A.T. Othorian Nel took command with his forces against all Human cities and became the First King of Tiamat. He tried to hold down all of Humanity, weaken them, and continue to fight any remnants of the Human Army for Tiamat.\par
1730 A.T. Jarnath had a rematch with Othorian Nel. Jarnath lost again, and Othorian decided that he would have to shut down Jarnath by destroying Nether.\par
1890 A.T. The Orcs were enraged at how they were treated, and saw an opportunity to take over Tiamat while the Elves and Humans were weakened by the war. Hellbringer the 5th started the Great Orcish War. The Humans and Elves fought back seperately against the Orcs brutality while still fighting amongst themselves. Meanwhile The Blight had begun to spread again.\par
2111 A.T. Tiamat was being torn apart by the Great Orcish War. The population fell in half. Eventually the Humans and Elves joined forces in order to defeat the common enemy. With the power of the Humans and Elves combined, they defeated the Orcs. Othorian Nel decided letting the Humans have equal political power in Tiamat would prevent any more wars between Elves and Humans. King Charlie the 1st became the first Human King of Tiamat alongside King Othorian. The Hellbringers were pushed back against the Spinal Mountains and the Quielent forest, and the family became known as the Grudge. The city of Hell changed its' name to Grudge.\par
2120 A.T. Elves and Humans were struggling to rebuild due to the war, and decided to put on heavy sanctions onto Grudge. The Orcs were horribly mistreated. \par
2430 A.T. The Grudge family after growing their numbers finnally began their rebellion. \par
2467 A.T. Gondor was founded.\par
2516 A.T. The Great Orc Rebellion was shut down, however they had now gained respect from Tiamat, and given a little more room and rights. This began the Great Long Era of Peace.\par
2549 A.T. Dangar was founded.\par
2654 A.T. The Age of Exploration began. There were stories of Great Treasure. Pirates and Explorers traveled throughout the seas looking for adventure. \par
3239 A.T. The Great Goat Incident.\par
3600 A.T. Hell Pass was created.\par
3834 A.T. Chin was rebuilt as Kin.\par
4239 A.T. Some Orcs began to do some raids onto nearby towns.\par
4401 A.T. Puke was founded.\par
4643 A.T. The Great Lake of Tiamat was separated into 3 lakes; Nown Lake, Life Lake, and Dragon Lake.\par
4790 A.T. Due to the difficulty of getting through Hell Pass, New Lorian was just founded.\par
5121 A.T. New Lorian is Raided so often that it is renamed Hell's Barrow.\par
5122 A.T. Puke is destroyed.\par
5256 A.T. Population is at an all time high. Most races are living relatively peacefully together. There are rising political tensions, however, society is very stable and established except for Puke and Hell's Barrow.\par
5938 A.T. Another Blight has began to appear.\par
6000 A.T. Present Year. Hell's Barrow has been destroyed.\par
6000 A.T. Hell's Barrow becomes renewed and named Dank Docs.\par
\fs24\tab While there is still plenty of gaps that need to be filled in, this is a basic guide for the history of Tiamat. I hope you enjoyed and learned something.\fs22\par
\par
\par
}
 